
Cyberbullying
Hi, in this video, we’re going to talk about cyberbullying.

cyberbullying:
the use of electronic communication to bully a person
What is Cyberbullying?
So first off, what is cyberbullying? Cyberbullying is the use of electronic communication to bully a person.

What is Cyberbullying?
Cyberbullying includes sending, posting, or sharing negative, harmful, false, or mean content about someone else.
Cyberbullying is a crime in many states.
It includes sending, posting or sharing negative, harmful, false, or plain old mean content about someone else. Before we go further, I want to point out that this type of behavior is a crime in many states.

Impact of Cyberbullying
Cyberbullying is not harmless just because it takes place online
Cyberbullying hurts real people
Victims of cyberbullying may experience isolation, low self-esteem, or depression
Cyberbullying is really damaging. It might not feel as harmful because it’s online, but it can be really devastating. Cyberbullying is damaging to real people. Victims may experience isolation, low self-esteem or depression so the impact of cyberbullying is very serious.

Cyberbullying is: 
Persistent: Digital devices allow constant communication, so victims don’t have respite
Permanent: Cyberbullying can contribute to the digital footprint of the victim and the bully
Discreet: Teachers and parents can’t see or overhear cyberbullying
There are a few characteristics of cyberbullying that make it especially harmful. First of all, it’s persistent. Because we have cell phones, tablets and computers that connect us to the internet, cyberbullies have the ability to be in constant communication with their victim. Someone who is being cyberbullied doesn’t ever get a break from the harrassment, because the bully can continue to the harrassment at home. 
It’s also permanent. Cyberbullying contributes to the digital footprint of the victim and the bully, so incidents of cyberbullying can follow both parties even after the behavior stops.
Lastly, cyberbullying is discreet. Teachers and parents might not see or hear cyberbullying, which can make it difficult for adults to intervene to make the behavior stop.

Cyberbullying Roles
Bully: uses digital devices to harass and hurt somebody
Victim: is being cyberbullied
Bystanders: are aware of cyberbullying but don’t intervene
Upstanders: try to break the cycle of cyberbullying
Let’s talk about the different roles that might be involved in an incident of cyberbullying. First, there is the bully. This person uses digital devices to harrass or hurt the victim, who is the person being cyberbullied.

Bystanders are people who are aware that cyberbullying is going on, but don’t intervene, sometimes because they are afraid that this will make them a target of bullying. Upstanders are people who try to break the cycle of cyberbullying by standing up for the victim or asking for help.

What should you do if you’re being bullied?
Do not respond to harassment or threats--this may encourage the bully 
Keep a record of messages received (print or take screenshots)
Reach out to parents, teachers, counselors, and school administrators
Block communication from the bully (if possible)

What should you do if you’re being bullied?
First, do not respond to harrassment or threats. This often encourages the bully by giving them the reaction that they want. Keep a record of messages that you receive or posts that are made. Print or take screenshots, you have a record of the bullying if it gets deleted. Reach out to a trusted adult. This might be a parent, teacher, counselor or school administrator. These people can help stop the bullying. If possible, block communication from the bully. Depending on the platform that the buly is using to contact you, you can block the bully from communicating with you. 

What should you do if you’re being bullied?
Report bullies to website admin--oftentimes bullying is a violation of terms of use
Don’t retaliate by bullying the bully--you could get in trouble for this!
Don’t forward messages from the bully
Don’t believe the bully!
You can report bullies to website admin. Most of the time, bullying or harrassment is a violation of the terms of use, so this can result in bullying posts being removed or the bully being suspended or kicked off the platform. Finally, there are some don’ts--do not retatliate by bullying the bully. This only brings you down to their level and could end up getting you in trouble. Don’t forward or share messages from the bully--you don’t know where the message might be shared. And lastly, don’t believe the bully. The messages you are getting from the bully says more about them than it does about you, so try not to let the bully’s behavior affect how you see yourself. If the bullying has affected your self-esteem, you should reach out to trusted friends and adults about your feelings, so they can help.

What should you do if you see bullying?
Don’t be a bystander by doing nothing. This allows the bullying to continue.
Be an upstander--break the cycle of bullying!
What if you see someone being bullied online? Don’t be a bystander by doing nothing--this only allows the bullying to continue. Instead, be an upstander and break the cycle of bullying.

How to be an Upstander
Reach out to the victim--let them know that you care and encourage them to seek help
Don’t bully the person who is being a bully
Tell a teacher, parent, or counselor about the bullying
Report bullying to the website admin

If you are aware of cyberbullying, the first thing you can do is reach out to the victim. Let them know that you care and that the bully is wrong. Encourage them to tell a trusted adult about the bullying. Do not start bullying the person who is being a bully--this doesn’t help the situation and you can get into trouble for this. Tell a teacher, parent, or counselor about the bullying that is happening--remember that cyberbullying is serious, so adults should get involved. Reprt bullying to the website admin to get posts taken down. 

In Conclusion...
Do not participate in cyberbullying (even in response to a bully)
Ask for help if you are being cyberbullied
Stand up if you see somebody being cyberbullied
In conclusion, do not participate in cyberbullying--even if it is in response to another bully. If you are being cyberbullied, you should ask for help, and if you see somebody being cyberbullied, stand up for them instead of being a bystander.
Remember that cyberbullying is can be very serious, so it’s important that we all do our part to stop it when we see it.

